2013-11-23

2013-11-20

It was good to see our instructors providing us feedback after having read our feedback. I think our group is taking everything we've learned in this class and what we've been taught are important, and applying it to our subgroup's tasks. While we've provided comments and feedback through surveys and in class and in office hours, I think the feedback received via email stood out because it directly responded to some of our comments. I'm particularly interested in how class goes tomorrow, as Aaron discusses expectations for the December 12th Data Science Faire, and also around grading. It'll be really helpful to understand what kind of product or output is expected of us for next month, and if we're having a final, and if so, what that'll be. It feels like in recent classes, it's more fuzzy what other groups are doing, and how their part is contributing the project; this is likely because the presenters haven't met as much, but also because we've been having working sessions. Hopefully we can do mini-updates / presentations to get back on the same page. Also, with a grant from Amazon Web Services, it'll be interesting to see how we integrate AWS into the course / project. It almost feels like we have a host of new topics that we need to cover, tackle and apply to the earthquake prediction project, and hopefully we can break out the groups and have each group tackle a small piece simultaneously. 

2013-11-23

Thursday's class was another working session, but with numerous working sessions in a row and not having presentations, it was difficult to see where our classmates were. Kristina and Danielle at the beginning of class also made the announcement that we'll be told where we individually stand in terms of grades on Tuesday, and that they'll make it defensible. Aaron also mentioned the notion of pivoting, and this made me think about whether our subgroup needed to pivot. We decided to schedule office hours with Aaron for Friday to check-in, and make sure we were still on the right track.

In office hours, we went over a number of topics, but all revolved around December 12th and working towards that goal. For the next three classes and beyond, we should be focused on making our work reproducible and continue to be collaborative. At this point, we could continue working all day and all week to figure out the science and seismology problem, but what we should really focus on is the reproducibility. Depending on the format of the data faire and whether our class breaks up into groups and presents at other tables, or if we're doing one presentation, our group can focus on presenting a notebook that shines, and provide the audience with three to-do's and items to tackle moving forward. For the collaboration element, we should focus on our story and how we all got to the same page, and our participation and contribution to the group and how that evolved over time. I think after this conversation, I at first felt like we were moving further from making decent strides in accomplishing our subgoal in the project, but ultimately, we can still make a few small iterations before the faire. Since our group has already committed a lot of time to reproducibility, we will want to continue focusing our efforts on this front and making sure our classmates can reproduce our work. Even within our small group, we've been shown that it's difficult. But overall, I think we have a clear direction to go in, and that itself is reassuring. 
